When
it comes to raising your children. That's not
being a dud. Did y'all make some close friends in
Austin? We got along real well with his employees.
And
we, Dr.
Ashworth.
He was there, of course, one of Jack's. But in two
years, you don't get that involved in a big city
with your husband traveling all over the state.
But life wasn't dull. We were involved in things,
but we never were really, as far as the city was
concerned, that involved in anything. I went to
the church. I belonged to a woman's group, but I
wasn't working at it. And if you don't work at
something, you're not part of it. Now, were those
Texans receptive to Carolinians, Virginians
moving there? Were you all treated courteously in
Austin? Sure. I don't think that... That was a
cosmopolitan city. I don't think there's any
problem there. Right. And then you went to
Tennessee, and you all lived in Knoxville?
Mm-hmm. Describe Andy Holt.
His character. Everybody loved him. He had a
charming way of being around people. And do you
know that after we moved, that he would take Mary
fishing? When his wife went to her club, he would
take Mary out to fish. Then he would go and dress the
fish for her. After we left, he was...
He just was a lovable personality as far as I'm
concerned and successful in what he did. As head of
the University of Tennessee system, I have often
thought that in many ways Jack Kenny Williams and
the way he went about things was similar to Andy
Holt in the way he went about things. Would you
agree with that? They both had good senses of
humor?
Well, they weren't the type to push their weight
around. They both had a way of... Jack had a way of
getting things done without being abrasive,
don't you think? Yes, didn't Dr. Holt? Well, of
course, I wasn't that close to Dr. Holt in two
years, you know, to know, but he was liked and loved
as far as I'm concerned, and I didn't know his
enemies. Everybody has them. Everybody makes
them. But both Williams and Holt When I saw them
publicly, they had a good sense of humor when it was
time to be humorous and a very good sense of
seriousness when it was time to be serious. And
neither one of them would talk about the
unpleasant. Jack didn't talk about the
unpleasant things. You never heard him talk about
the people on the board that were not cooperative
with anything he wanted. You never heard him talk
about it, did you? No, no.
I think that there are ways to get things done, and I
don't know how Jack did it, but he got things done
because he would just sort of say this is what we
need to do and work at it and get someone to help. He
used people. You felt used, didn't you? Like you
did about putting together the... No, I always
thought the assignments were very appropriate.
But you were never ignored. Oh, no. Very true. That
you were part of the team. That's right. He worked
with you. I shouldn't say used you, but he worked
with the team. Very much so. When you all came to
A&M, when did you first see the House, the
President's House? Did you all come to visit
before he accepted? I was there with the Rutters
when he was commissioner of higher education. So
you had been... Margaret had, while Jack was there
for a meeting, she asked Governor Conley to come by
and meet me, and he did. He came by the house and met
me and the two girls. Just briefly. Let's digress
on... But I didn't go up and look in the clauses or
anything like that. Describe your impression of
John Conley. describe what kind of governor did he
seem to be? I thought he was a successful governor
and a leader that he got. He and Margaret Rutter
were in school together. They were good friends. I
don't think that I was in the position to evaluate
him as the governor of Texas pro or con. I wasn't
that involved with it.
I think you overrate me for thinking that I would
know. But he was an influence in bringing Jack back
to Texas A&M when a member of the board, and I don't
remember which one of them I heard to say this, that
they went to John Connolly to check on Jack because
he'd been commissioner, and he said, get him if you
can. Now, that's an important fact for us to
record. I learned, by the way, not long ago from
Mrs. Rutter, when I referred to Nellie Connolly,
that that really wasn't her name. And I said, oh,
and she said her name was Milda, I believe Milda
May, all one word. But that when... Ida Nell. Ida
Nell. Ida Nell, there's a song. But that then when
he was running for governor, one of the campaign
managers said that that sounded not as as upbeat as
Nellie. So that she said, all of us knew her as Ida
Nell, but the reporters called her Nellie. When
you all arrived at the campus, was there any
furniture in the house? Yes. And how did your
furniture fit into them? Well, I gave most of my
furniture to Margaret Rudder. for a period of
time. I took my furniture and furnished Mary's
bedroom and her sitting room upstairs. So she had
family furniture in those two rooms. And the rest
of it either went in the store or to the Rutter's
house. Margaret had not bought furniture. See,
she'd been living in a furnished house. And I
hadn't. I had my own secondhand stuff. But
I felt like Mary deserved to have only family
furniture in her two rooms, which is what I did. And
the rest of it now, I had in one bedroom, I had an
antique bed that my granddaddy cut down the tree
and had made for his wedding bed, and my
granddaughter has it now. I put that in one room,
and I put another bed that I'm sleeping in right now
in another bedroom upstairs. I guess those
bedrooms weren't furnished, or weren't totally
furnished. There may have been something in their
rooms. But I remember I had two of my beds upstairs,
and they had a king-size bed. in the master
bedroom.
And I can't remember where I made that, finally
made that into two twin beds or what I did, but
anyway it was, I just sort of adjusted what we
needed and what we had. And then later on I sent from
Margaret, I got back the sofa that's in the living
room to put in Jack's office because they had a
little plastic type sofa in there that wasn't very
nice. And turn it off, and I'll tell you an
interesting story. When you got to the campus,
what kind of staffing was there for the
president's home? Was there a full-time
employee? Well, yeah. This I can't put in. I had
Willie, a black man that had been the chauffeur for
the Rutter children and the bartender. And
Juanita had left with Margaret, that was the cook.
And they brought a lady over that couldn't even set
up a tea tray. And she was a minister's daughter, I
mean a wife. Is this on? You want me to turn it on? Who
were, in your College Station years, who were the
favorite friends of the Williams? Who did you all
enjoy most as friends?
We never invited people into the house at night
unless there was some special occasion. When Jack
came home, what times he was home at night, I never
added to his evenings unless it was something
unusual.
We never had, like the Rudders did, a group of
people that came to the house to party. We never had
that.
I probably wonder now if the people on his staff
didn't wonder why aren't we ever invited to dinner
at their house. You weren't.
Because the schedule was so demanding, I know. I
never added. We never had. He once asked me to let
him invite the children of his friends over to
entertain them for meals, and I said, no, you'll
make more enemies than you make friends because
you'll forget somebody. You'll overlook people.
And that will just, if we're right here, everybody
can see the comings and going. And I enjoyed a lot of
people, but...
As I said, we didn't. You know that from
experience. You weren't invited there. I did what
I had to do, but I just didn't add to anything that
was not scheduled. Right. So y'all were not part of
a bridge group or a bridge group there? No, no. We
weren't part of a social group at all that I know of.
We got along with everybody and enjoyed
everybody, but... This sounds awful for me, but I
just didn't invite people to add to anything that
he had to do. I felt like he needed some time to
relax. Sure. When you all went on vacation while
you were in California? We looked for a place where
nobody knew us. Where did you go? Do you remember?
Yeah, we went to Callaway Gardens. We went to High
Hampton. We went to visit the families. We went to
Canada once. Did I tell you about Canada? No.
uh we were oh i found out i could have turned this off
i'm
trying to think of the name of this place i think we
were there and jack said quick quick mary was with
us and he pointed out that there was a whole carload
of aggies unloading
So we went in a jewelry store and stayed a while.
Isn't that mean? No, he didn't need to get involved
when you're away. He
just needed some time for us. During those A&M
years, who were the state and federal legislators
that were most helpful to Dr. Williams and to A&M?
Who was there in Austin and Washington that was? I
don't know. I know that he had one friend that was a
budget board man. On the LBB? The budget board. He
came to see him once. Did I tell you about that? No.
Joe, will you go in the office and take the picture
of the steer down and bring it in here on the wall?
One day this man shows up at the office.
And he was in motorcycle clothes. He came on a
motorcycle. And he wanted to go in there and see
that president. And Hilary Gaines, worked for
Jack, said, do you have an appointment? No, but I'm
going in there to see that president. And of course
she didn't know who he was. so but she said you can't
go and she got up and stood in front of the door and
blocked it and of course
neil colwell's his name i think oh i remember that
name we're looking at a big uh looks like red angus
bull And this is a drawing which Mr. Caldwell made.
Look at that. Isn't that awful? Did he present that
work of art to Dr. Williams? No, not then, but
another time. But he went in and, of course, was
very amused to think that Jack would have somebody
that loyal to him working in an office. But Hillary
literally got up and put her arms across the door
and wouldn't let him go in. And I guess that's when
he told her who he was. But he was the budget boy.
That is the steer for the King Ranch. Sired the King
Ranch. Don't you think that's interesting? Oh,
yeah. That he thought that much of Jack, that he
would give him one of his art pieces. No, I don't...
I don't know... What about Tiger Teague? Do you
remember him? Oh, yeah, Tiger Teague was a great
help, and Catherine went to work for him in
Washington after she graduated. Tiger Teague and
Jack were friends, but I never knew what was going
on as far as the business of the university and who
you were picking up and calling. I saw Jack one time
be called by somebody at the university and asking
him to see if they could save the permanent fund did
i tell you that before they couldn't get one of the
members of the legislature in dallas they could
they said they
this is the reason i hate this they couldn't get to
him could he could he did he think he could get him to
vote for them to save the permanent that's when all
the colleges wanted to break it down And Jack said,
sure. So he picked up the telephone
and called the head of the frozen food expense,
Stubbs, and told him what the problem was. And he
said, yes, we own him. Did you cut that off? No, we
can work that out later. We own him. And five
minutes later, he got the phone call saying that it
was all taken care of. But the University of Texas
was a strong political group. You realize that
always. They were used to having their way
regardless of what it was and what was going on. And
Dr. Williams and Mickey LeMaitre, who was then the
chancellor of the UT system, they were old
acquaintances. They were friends, always were.
And worked well together, didn't they? Mm-hmm.
He's the one that called Jack that day about coming
to the medical center, and that
was on a Monday, and the next Monday we were down
there for a business meeting with members of the
hospital board. I'm not going to ask you the
negative on this one. Of the A&M board members, who
were his favorites?
Mr. Zachary would be one, wouldn't he? He wasn't on
the board. Oh, he was off the board by then? Yeah.
Okay. He was on the coordinating board. You know
what Mr. Zachary told me? What's that? I shouldn't
repeat it. He told me Jack was the finest man he ever
knew. He talked to him every week. That's the kind
of thing we do want on there. To me, that... I taught
my children what respect was by using Mr. Zachary.
I told them that you have to respect the source of
your criticism, pro or con, and that Mr. Zachary's
criticism, any way it came, we would sure pay
attention to it. We respected him. And I think
that's a good way to have a good example to teach a
child. Right. Now, if we were listing... I don't
know. He had good friends on the board. And I had
some wives that were good friends. Who? Which
ones? I have a letter. I don't know what I did with
it. He came to see us when he was in the hospital,
too, in Dallas. They both died close together.
She wrote me a letter once that said, 10 to 12. Where
do you all have to be? Goodson. Goodson. Goodson.
Goodson. Joe can remember. She was a good friend of
mine, and he was a good friend. He got along okay.
Now, as I say, Jack and I were not the buddy-buddy
type people. The only person I know that he was over
in former students, I think he could relax and be
silly over there with the people that worked for
him. They were such good friends and worked so hard
for their university, and they weren't
political. With Buck Wirus and Dick Hervey? Yeah,
those people over there. But, see, we were not
buddy-buddy people. I'm still not. I have good
friends, but I've just always gone for, this goes
back to my childhood. I'm sure that you always have
a best friend, but that you don't live together.
You know what I'm saying is you don't have to have,
you don't have to have somebody around. I'll bet
you all are that way. You don't have to have
somebody in the house every night. What were his
favorite foods when you were going to feed him?
What? What was his favorite food? What did he enjoy
most? Well, what we had the most were
Williamsburgers. What's a Williamsburger? Yes.
A hamburger. But what made it a Williamsburger? It
was made by Jack Williams. He could put, even at the
last years of our life, We were going to have a
hamburger, which we had our meat special ground
for. It wasn't a hamburger. We went to the butcher
and had him grind our meat. Jack had put one
together that was juicy and delicious and just
wonderful, and he had his own recipe, which he put
egg in his hamburgers. But one of my nieces named
them Williamsburgers and we always had
Williamsburgers. Now what else went on the
Williamsburger other than meat? Lettuce and
tomato. We'd have lettuce and tomato, nothing
else. No onions ever. Mayonnaise. But mustard
went in the making of Williamsburgers. Mustard,
egg, and salt went in the making of
Williamsburgers. Right. Let's make believe that
you know he's going to have a long, tiresome day,
and you want to feed him an evening meal that you
know he'll really enjoy. What would you have
served? No telling. We ate normal food and
balanced meals. I still have a balanced meal.
Every meal for myself is a balanced meal because
that's your health. And I tried to take care of
Jack. Jack had health problems before we ever
heard of Texas.
And so, I mean, I... I bought sirloin tip roasts and
we had potatoes and we had, you know, another dish
that was easy and it's off my diet now was open a can
of baked beans, pork and beans, pour a lot of
ketchup on top and onion slices all over the top and
bake it. Now, that was an old standby. Homemade
applesauce. We had a lot of applesauce. We had a lot
of cabbage slaw. We never cooked cabbage. You
know, it's just good old... Were there some foods
that you knew he didn't like?
It's been so long, he wasn't a complainer. He
finally didn't like apricot bread.
Whatever he did like was so routine that I just
never had to give a great thought to anything. I fed
my children vegetables and good meat. Oh, back in
those days we had a lot of fried chicken. Remember
when fried chicken was okay to eat? And I was real
good at that. But now I barbecue outside
chicken thighs. which is the difference you see in
the way we cook now, what we did then. But it was okay
then to have fried chicken, and that was good. How
long has it been since you fried chicken? About 20
years. Did he have some favorite desserts?
This is interesting to me that you wanted to know
these details. We're trying to learn. See, we want
to learn all we can about the person. Uh-huh.
There was always ice cream and Ms. McCauley's
Pound Cake. This is a recipe for a pound cake that
Hugh McCauley's mother made. And that's the
reason it was called Ms. McCauley's Pound Cake.
But no, Jack just didn't require a lot of anything
because we... Things just agreed on between us. We
didn't say Jack Spratt could eat no fat and his wife
could eat no lean. We didn't do like that. Whatever
was there was there. He cooked breakfast a lot of
the times for us, for the girls and so forth. He got
home first. He cooked dinner if I was out taking a
child to orthodontist or something like that. He
came home He didn't sit down and wait for me to come
home. He cooked a lot of meals.
My wife was asking me if I was listening to that.
Well, this was because he had a working mother. He
had a working mother, and he didn't sit around and
wait for her. In fact, he used to have to go to the
drugstore and let his mother go home for supper,
and he ran the drugstore while his parents went
home to eat. And then he had to be back. at 9.30 to
help them close. Jack was a person who had every
hour of his day, even as a young man, programmed
with school and he participated in things, you
know, and played football and helped with the drug
store and had a paper route in the morning. He was
brought up to be programmed by the hour. And I told
you the last time about his mother saying she cried
when she had to bundle him up and send him out in this
terrible weather to deliver his papers. And when
he told me about it, his was a different story. I
just tried to be in a certain place on the hill to see
the sun come up, and then one of his customers
always had him in for a cup of hot chocolate. So he
was, you know, he had a good youth with a very strict
father. And I think all this program showed. This
is why he never... complained about things. He
just kept it all to himself if it was bad. As that
while he was president of A&M with that very
demanding schedule where did he keep his his daily
schedule? Was it in a little book as I have mine?
There was there something he carried in his
pocket? I have those all in a drawer. Okay and so he
would check that if someone asked him about can you
come to this kind of a meeting he would check that
little I don't know. He had his schedule and little
tiny writing in them. And sometimes I have one
matchbook where he took notes at a meeting. I
wanted to send it to Dick Linerty. It's still back
there in my desk drawer, the matchbook where he
took notes at a meeting. And it was something about
the medical center, planning for the medical
center. So evidently he was...
That's what he had to write in was that matchbook,
and that's where he wrote them. And it was in his
desk drawer, and it still is. It's
hard to describe Jack because he could... I told
him, just turn it off. Let me turn this back on. How
did you all meet John Lindsay? Do you remember when
you first became acquainted with John and Sarah
Lindsay?
No, I don't. As I told you, we weren't... See, even
the people that came after football games and so
forth were lots of times people that I hardly knew.
We were invited to the Lindsay's once in Houston to
dinner, and we got there real... See, it came
through John to Jack, and nothing in writing, no
phone call from her. And we showed up too early. And
so she made it clear that she had work to do in order
to cook for us. And we left and then came back. She
suggested that we come back or something like
that. But I just was pulled along, which I often
was. I never got on an airplane if Jack didn't have
in writing an invitation for me. When he went on the
airplane, I was never there unless it was
something that I was supposed to attend. And I
showed up then for that without any prior
information. Lots of times I did. Recently, the
Heisman Trophy Award that came to Walker while we
were in it, Houston while we were in College
Station, remember Walker getting the Heisman
winning. I went to that banquet when he praised his
mother and there were three tears of, I'd never
heard of the Heisman Award. I didn't know what I was
at now and I've got a copy of it now out of that Texas
A&M book. I can't remember what tier I was sitting
at, probably the lowest tier. But the Maltz
brothers, Melvin Maltz and his brother, were very
involved in that Heisman Award that night. And
Walker gave great credit to his mother, as usual.
But until recently, I'd never known the
background for the Heisman trophy. Have you? Not
really. and who Heisman was and so forth. It's real
interesting. And it might even be right here where
I can... Oh, I forget, I can't... It might be
pulled... I tore it out of the paper. It's right
behind those books there, down there below. Let's
go back to John Lindsay. He just was never a person
not to just show up and help. That's what he's still
doing. And, no, it'd be on the other stool back
there. I may have carried it back to the office, but
anyway, I'll mail it to you. I'll make a copy and
mail it to you. I just don't know when he came into my
paying attention to him. They were always nice
people, but even at the reception
last week for the press, they're just there. He
doesn't... She is...
I think a very involved person, but nothing pushy
about her. And he's just pushy about Texas A&M, as
far as I know. He's successful. And they lost one of
their sons.
And he was in the hospital when Jack was with his
heart attack. And I got John's birthday cake. He
sent a cake up to us, and I didn't know it. And we took
the cake. Even though Catherine did wish she could
have one piece, we took it up and gave it to the
people that were taking care of Jack. We gave his
birthday cake away. And then later on, he said he
didn't get a birthday cake. They asked for
something. I said, oh, we gave it away. But their
son had his back operation, and I went out and
bought him a cactus, carried it in,
which I thought was something for a young person,
you know, to grow it.